# hMRI Toolbox Documentation

The hMRI Toolbox is an easy-to-use open-source and flexible tool, for qMRI data handling and processing.
It allows the estimation of high-quality multi-parameter qMRI maps
(longitudinal and effective transverse relaxation rates R1 and R2\*, proton density PD
and magnetisation transfer MT saturation) ([Weiskopf2008](references.md#weiskopf2008) and
[Weiskopf2013](references.md#weiskopf2013)),
followed by spatial registration in common space for statistical
analysis ([Draganski2011](references.md#draganski2011)).

Embedded in the [Statistical Parametric Mapping](http://www.fil.ion.ucl.ac.uk/spm) (SPM) framework,
it can be readily combined with existing SPM toolboxes for estimating diffusion MRI parameter maps,
and it benefits from the extensive range of established SPM tools for high-accuracy spatial registration and statistical
inferences.

The qMRI maps generated by the toolbox can be used for quantitative parameter analysis and accurate delineation of subcortical brain structures.
They are key input parameters for biophysical models designed to estimate tissue microstructure properties
such as the MR g-ratio and to derive standard and novel MRI biomarkers ([Mohammadi2015](references.md#mohammadi2015)).
The hMRI toolbox is therefore the first step towards *in vivo* histology using MRI (hMRI) and is being extended further
in this direction.

The flexible and modular nature of the toolbox makes it usable for a **wide range of data types**, from the full MPM
protocol to subsets of it, including e.g. single contrast echo trains for mapping R2\* or variable flip angle data for
R1 and PD mapping using multi-echo or single-echo data. The spatial processing part of the toolbox can be applied to **any
set of rotationally-invariant qMRI maps**, including diffusion MRI scalar parameter maps as well as the standard (R1,
PD, MT and R2\*) MPM maps.

For a reference on the scientific background, methods and concepts please use
the [hMRI-toolbox paper](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuroimage.2019.01.029) and cite it when publishing results compiled
with the hMRI-toolbox.

## About the Documentation

These pages are a collection of documentation and information about using the hMRI-toolbox.
It is an ongoing project that will be updated regularly.

